Whether you're working on a Mac or on Windows,
you can run the same exact Docker machine commands.
In fact,
you'll run a Bash shell even if you're on Windows as you'll see in a moment.
Now we've already installed the Docker toolbox so it
adds some icons on my desktop area.
What I like to do is drag down the Docker
Quickstart terminal down to my toolbar,
so I'm going to go ahead and open that up,
and you can see that it automatically fires up the
virtual machine called default.
This is running as a Linux virtual machine in
VirtualBox and gives me the IP address.
Now, one of the things that's a little bit different,
though,
on the Windows side is that you'll note that I'm not in a normal DOS mode here.
I'm in a type of Bash shell, and so I can run commands,
for instance, like ls,
which would be very similar to dir that you're used to in
Windows and that'll list where I'm at all,
the files and folders and things.
I can type clear kind of like cls in windows and notice that clears
off the screen and there is a lot of other things we could do that
are related to more of a Bash environment.
So what this does is it installs this Bash environment for
Windows and that's a good thing actually because these same
commands that we can run on Mac and Linux,
you can run here on Windows.
So let's get started by jumping into the Docker machine command itself.
Earlier, when I pulled this up,
you saw that we had a Docker machine called default,
and again, it listed the IP.
And so,
I can list all the machines on my Windows environment by
saying docker‑machine ls and this will now list that I
have a machine called default, it's running on virtualbox,
the status is it's up and running,
and there is the IP address you can see for that machine.
Now, if I wanted to get to the IP on windows for that particular machine,
we could say docker‑machine ip for the name of the machine.
So you simply take that name there, hit Enter,
and there we go,
and I could also get the status by doing docker‑machine status for default,
and you can see it's up and running, so ls will get you all the machines,
but if you just want to get a particular property of that
machines such as the IP or the status, then you can run those commands as well.
Now, when we ran the quickstart terminal,
this actually ran some behind the scene scripts that made it possible to run
other Docker commands against this machine called default and one of the
commands we're going to learn about later is docker ps.
Now, if you watched all of this for the Mac side of it,
this is going to look exactly the same and that's kind of the point of it,
but if you are just jumping right to this Windows information,
Docker PS will list the running containers that we have and we'll
talk more about this coming up later in the module,
but you'll notice that it works, alright,
and the reason this works is because when I did the quickstart terminal,
it already made sure that my default virtual machine was running,
if it wasn't, it starts it up,
and it hooks this terminal window here to that running
machine so that when I issue commands,
many of which we'll learn about a little bit later here in this module,
such as docker ps, those commands work.
If we weren't linked to the machine,
then we'd have some problems and we couldn't run the commands.
Now,
one way you can switch machines or link it up yourself is you can run
docker‑machine env for the name of the machine that you want to hook
to and what this will do is it'll set up some environment variables
for us, you'll see those there, and then it tells me go ahead and run
this eval statement.
Now you'll notice there is a space here, and so, unfortunately,
if you run it as they sort of show you,
let me just copy that down, we'll paste that, we're going
to get an error because of the space.
It didn't know what to do.
Now we could just kind of abbreviate this and run docker‑machine directly
because it is a known command, you've already seen that up here, but if we
want to leave what they give us and just fix it up,
I'm going to hit home to go to the beginning and I'm just going to add a
single apostrophe and we're going to wrap this path,
let me do and and we'll kind of back it in here.
Alright, now it'll know that we have some spaces in our path, in this case,
in our folders, and now it's going to work appropriately.
Now we were already hooked into default so that was a very redundant
thing to do, but it's good to know because if you ever for whatever
reason want to switch to a different machine,
you'll have to set the Docker environment to something other than
default, maybe my machine if that's what it was called.
Alright,
so the last thing is if you want to see all the commands Docker machine has,
you can say Docker machine and this'll list everything you can do do.
So you'll see there are quite a few commands here.
We can go in, and in fact, I'm going to show a start and a stop to wrap up,
but we can start a machine, we can stop a machine.
I've shown you the status, the ls, and the ip, but there
is a lot of other things you can do.
You can actually create new machines.
We're not going to do that because the default
machine has everything we need for now,
but there is a lot of information. You can inspect and kill
a machine and do all kinds of fun stuff.
We're focusing right now on the key commands that you
need to know to get started here.
The last thing I want to show you is that you can also come
in and say docker‑machine start or stop.
Obviously, default is already started.
We've seen the ls and we can see it's running.
But I could also come in and say docker‑machine stop default. And now,
that's going to stop that virtual machine, and then likewise,
I could say docker‑machine start default and there is even a restart.
So let's go in and now that that one is stopped,
which was pretty quick, you could see, we can start default,
and this will take just a little bit more time to start it back up, but
then we'll have a running virtual machine again and we'll be kind of
ready to go. Now if when you start a machine,
if for some reason when you issue Docker commands,
you get a error, then you'll need to run that Docker environment,
the env command that I showed and then do that eval copy and paste thing.
So that's an example of how you can run Docker machine
commands on a Windows environment, and again,
if you happen to watch the earlier one on how to do this on a Mac,
you should now see that the commands are the same,
which is really, really nice.
It doesn't matter what your on Linux, Windows,
Mac,
you're going to be running the same exact commands. And so once you learn
these core commands that I'm going to focus on here,
you're pretty much good to go regardless of what operating system you're going to be running against.